[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you
from the QI offices in Holborn. My name is Anna Tyshinski and I'm sitting here with James Harkin,
Andrew Ontemuri and not Dan Schreiber this week. How much are we sharing about the reasons for
his indisposition? Well he did message us this morning saying that he was sick so unfortunately
he's not here but we've all done the research already so we're going to do it anyway. Yeah.
So let's start with fact number one and because I'm hosting this week that is my fact and my fact
this week is that a rat in Tanzania just retired after preventing 30,000 people from getting TB.
Lovely. So this is a named rat. It's a named rat. It's not like a woman gives birth every six seconds.
Every time I click my fingers a rat retires. Yeah. A rat who's prevented thousands of TB cases.
It's a specific rat, Carolina. Yes and it's just something to make you all listeners and us feel
quite underachieving about what we've done with our lives. This is genuinely the effect it had on me.
Carolina, she's an African giant pouch rat and she screens Flem samples for TB and she does it
very quickly, much more effective than humans with microscopes or much quicker and they worked
out that over seven years working in this job she's detected over 3,000 cases of TB and that
means that she's stopped it spreading because it spreads to a certain number of people so I think
it spreads to between 10 and 15 people per infected person. So by screening it you stop it from
spreading and so she's probably spared 30 to 45,000 people from getting it and probably saved over
5,000 knives in her 70 year career. So have they put her in a nice home? Yes, they have actually.
They put her with her friend. They do get a really nice retirement. Wait a minute. This is her friend
that she's been working with all this time, right? Like no offense to you guys but I don't really see
my retirement as sitting on a porch and a rocking chair next to you two. Are you crazy? This is
going to be so much fun. I haven't even looked that far ahead yet. I think that's going to be
brilliant. Yeah, I've found us a spot in Florida. We can park us for the entire home, you know?
Yeah, kill them off early, all the other inhabitants. These rats are unbelievable.
They're so cool. I find it absolutely incredible and this is an amazing non-profit company called
Apopo, APOPO based in Tanzania and Ethiopia and yeah, it uses these giant pouch rats for various
things and they have these incredible centers of smell. Yeah, they're faster as well. They can do
100 samples in 20 minutes and the human equipment is much slower. Cheaper, I bet.
They are a lot cheaper. They're very unionized. And they pick it up way more. So the classic
testing method picked up about 60% of cases or for people who had HIV as well, it was only about
20% of cases that got picked up. The rats, when they just smell a sample from a patient, they pick
up about 70%. So they're really good. And humans have this ability, like in the middle ages, doctors
would ask patients, this is really cool to cough on a hot coal or spit on a hot coal and that would
generate a bit of a smell because it cooks it. Really? And the doctor will use that for diagnosis.
I think that works. Well, yeah, in the middle ages, famously human lifespan was very long.
No, but you can smell TB if someone's got a really advanced case of it.
The Dutch word for TB is tering, which means the smell of tar or it comes from the smell of tar,
because that's what it smells like. So yeah, I'm having read this, do feel like we haven't really
done very much with our lives apart from and I'm now taking out a piece of paper. It's a certificate.
And Andy, do you want to read this certificate? Oh my god, this certificate recognizes that no
such thing as a fish has officially adopted Tamasha, who uses her exceptional sense of smell
to save lives by sniffing out TB samples in Tanzania. So we have an official no six thing
as a fish. Oh my god. Pouched rat. Where's it? It's us saving the lives now. When do we get to retire?
So if you want to sponsor a giant pouched rat, then you just go to apopo.org and you can do it
there. I think it's 12 quid a month or something. So nice. That's the same as the license fee.
Well, I don't pay that. So I do. We are sponsored today. They actually have not a bad life. They
are lazy. They only have to work for about 10 minutes a day. I don't really understand why
they make them work so little. They just put them in this glass container and they put the
TB samples. And these are TB samples that have had negative results from the classic test that
Andy mentioned, which aren't very reliable. So they're very expensive tests, which are very
reliable. The classic test is not spitting on a rock. No, there's another test.
Yes, sorry. It's not the spit on the fire and sniff it. It's the classic cheaper medical test
that gets sent around rural areas. Not very reliable. So if you get a negative result from
that, it gets sent to the rats. And then they sniff at it. And because they're so fast,
they'll cover enough cases per day in 10 minutes to then stop. And then once they retire,
they get this big enclosure. Like I say, she's hanging out with her friends. They have a big
party. They get cheered. They get carrot cake. They get a good life.
It sounds amazing. So this place where they are, I think this is the place in Tanzania is in a
place called Moragoro. And there are all sorts of rats doing all sorts of different things.
It's incredible. Like there's the landmine rat division over here. There's the TB rat division
over here. Every year, this center gets through 25,000 bananas, 6,000 avocados and a ton of peanuts.
Literally one ton. It's a mashers favorite food, this avocado. Which that's so nice.
Avocado and banana smoothie seems to be their food of choice. So we'll send to them.
They'll never get there. They'll never afford a house.
Yeah. So the landmine thing, you kind of glossed over a little bit. But yeah, there are these rats
that can find landmines because landmines smell a little bit like TNT. And they can smell the TNT.
And what you do is you get two humans and you walk down a stretch where there might be some
landmines. But the landmine's possibly in between you. So you're not walking in a dodgy bit.
And then you tie a bit of rope to your leg. And then the rope attaches to your rat. And then
another rope attaches your mate to the rat as well. And you walk down while the rat sort of walks
between you and sweeps the area. So they don't run away basically.
Okay. So imagine a three-legged race at sports day, but with the rat in between and the high
charts are being blown up. Yeah. But also the rope that's tying your legs together is a good few
meters long. You're not that close to your person. Because the rats are too light to set off landmines.
That's the idea. Yeah. The one problem is you have to remove all the vegetation first because
they're only rats. They're not that big. Well, they're big for rats, but they're still pretty
small. So the removal of the vegetation might set off the landmines as well. Okay. So those are the
real heroes of the gardening rats who are sent out. Yeah, they have like these lawn mowing machines
that they sent out. So there's no humans involved in those. Oh, like a Zumba. Rumba.
Like a Zumba rumba. Didn't they say, "I get knocked down, but I get knocked down."
The Epopo team in Mozambique, they've destroyed 13,000 landmines. And Mozambique is now landmine
free. And they declare that partly because of the work these rats have been doing. And then when
they have cleared a piece of land, staff from Epopo have to do a handover ceremony to the locals in
the area. And they have to run around across the land to prove that it's safe. Oh, really? Yeah.
Because otherwise, how are you going to trust it? So like you really have to... That's putting your
money where your mouth is, isn't it? I'm glad we didn't have tests like that at QI. If your rat has
a cold that day, look out. Yeah. Look many eyes, Masha. Do you promise? Before you do any landmine
detection, you need to do one thing. I'm the rat. You're the rat handler. Yeah. What do you have to
do to your rat before they go out? Make friends? Make friends? No. Not bothered about that. Oh,
I would have thought... Business like... Establish a bond. Okay. I mean, tie the rat to you. It's a
massage. What? Who's massaging who? It's a massage of kind. With a happy ending. Rub your rat's nose.
Jesus Christ, Adam. Why? That's right. Because they can't concentrate on looking for landmines if
they're horny. It's like, you know, football managers stay the day you get it all out of the
system or something. I don't think Alex Ferguson was doing that to his players. The hairdryer
treatment is actually something completely different. It's trying to go in the order of
biography, but I'm telling you. Oh my goodness. No, you need to bring us back to reality. You need
to rub sun cream into their ears. Oh, really? Why? Because if you look at this picture of
Tamasha here, she's got quite... You can see the skin on her ears, right? Oh, that's going to burn.
Yeah. And they spend a lot of time underground normally. So basically, they can get burnt. And
they would get in ear cancer, actually, some of them. Oh, really? In the very early days. So now
all handlers have to apply sun cream before they go out to work. That's great. Maybe their nose and
paws too, actually, because those are the bits which are a bit more flashy. That's so nice. They're
nocturnal, aren't they? A lot of them. So they have to... That's so sweet. And do you know why
they're all so good? The smelling things. The smelling? Yeah. Why? Well, it's all to do with
their love life. So males have to be able to tell which females are sexually available.
Females have really delayed sexual development. So any males which can tell are at a big advantage.
If you can tell which females are ready to mate, you're in a much better position. Right. Because
lots of them aren't. Because lots of them aren't. So there's this weird thing you can measure which
shows you which males are really, really, really good at this. It's the, I'm sorry to say it,
it's the anogenital distance. So it's the distance between the rat's scrotum and his bottom. A male
with a longer one of those, if those two things are further apart, then they can smell the difference
much better between available and non-available females. This sounds like reflexology or something.
You get, oh, your anogenital implies that you'll really smell out those ladies. It's to do with
sexual hormones. So rats which have the sexual hormones in their system have a greater one of
those distances. My rat's got a long anogenital distance. How does he smell? He smells very well
because of his long anogenital distance. Brilliant. Yeah. One thing I've said before on this podcast,
in fact, I think the only time we might have mentioned pouched rats before is the fact that
females vaginas tend to seal up from time to time. So they are open when they're ready to mate. But
if they're not going to mate, they close. And also, if you have like a senior female there who's
like the main one who's going to be mating, she can send out a signal which makes all the other
females vaginas close up. And what I didn't say last time is that if a female with an open vagina
dies, then all of the other females in the area, their vaginas will open. What? No. You can hear
a little pop, pop, pop, pop. Imagine a funeral in the pouch rat world. Suddenly all the females in
the river are all opening their vaginas. And it really went because we don't have this ability,
do we, to close and open them? I mean, as far as I know. No, because they're sealed. Like they're
really closed up. Like they're properly closed up. It looks like closing your legs. No, it's
like becoming a Barbie doll. It's like it just goes. It's bizarre. We should say while being heroes,
absolutely disgusting and I still want them all to go away. Because they're huge. They're massive.
Yeah. They're not rats as well, aren't they? They're not rats. They're not rats. No. I mean,
Tamasha here on our certificate, she looks quite like a rat. It looks like a rat and acts like
a rat and smells like a rat. Well, probably doesn't smell like a rat. But, you know, to all intents
and purposes, it's a rat. But it turns out that they're not related. They're related to rats.
Yeah, I know. They have bodies, as National Geographic put it, which I liked. They're bodies,
so not including their tails, are longer than a 13-inch MacBook Air. What a stupid thing to say.
But you can't say longer than a MacBook Air because they're probably shorter than a 15-inch
MacBook Air. Well, think of something else. They're longer than a 12-inch ruler. Oh, yeah, thanks.
You know, I think what that means is they're longer than 13 inches. And so that does mean that
with tail included, they get up to 35 or 36 inches long, like three feet long. Okay, that's massive.
One of these pouch rats is bigger than the world's smallest deer in both weight and length. Whoa.
So that's the lesser mouse deer versus the giant pouch rat. That's striking. Who, I'd watch that
fight. Yeah, the rat's easily going to win, actually, isn't it? Yeah, I'm afraid so. No, it's going to be a walk over.
Okay, it is time for fact number two, and that is James. Okay, my fact this week is that while
locked away to choose a new pope, cardinals used to be banned from eating pies because it was too
easy to hide messages in them. So good. I don't think it is easy. Are you joking? It would be so
soggy. You can't read a message once it's, you know, been drowned in stock. Well, you insert it in a dry
bit of the pie, a dry chunk of beef or whatever, or a dry mushroom. I mean, not for you, James, but
you know. I'm not having any of your pie. It says how dry are your pies? I think the point is it's a
secret pie, not the point that you have to combine the message and a terrific pie.
And the other thing, the other thing I banned was whole chickens as well, didn't I? So no. So this is
from an article on JSTOR about conclaves, and it was mentioning Chef Colbert Elimeo Scappi,
who was catering for the conclave between Paul III and Julius III in 1549. And yeah, according to
his description, you cannot send enclosed pastries or whole chickens nor wine in any vessel but of
glass that was not first opened out and examined. And basically, yeah, he had all these rules just
so that they couldn't cheat because really, it was a very secretive thing and lots of kings and
queens around Europe were trying to influence it and stuff. And also people from the outside wanted
to know what was happening because he would gamble on it and stuff like that. So yeah. Is the idea that
let's say the king of Spain wants the Spanish cardinal to get the gig as pope, he'll put something
in the pie saying, I'll give you 10,000 Florence if you vote for Cardinal Juan or whatever it is,
isn't it? That's the idea. Yeah. Oh, that's a fear, I guess. And I did read that these rules were
basically completely ineffective. And even though they existed, secret messages just always got in
and out in those days. There was a 16th century conclavist, so a conclavist was one of two assistants
that each cardinal was allowed to help them inside get dressed and clean their teeth and, you know,
they needed servants. Anyway. Well, yeah, you can't do a conclave if you're sexually frustrated,
so something has to happen before you start. I won't hear such slander about the Catholic Church.
A conclave who wrote that Charles V pretty much knows when they urinate in this conclave.
That's the level of detail he's getting about the information. Wow. Interesting. And the point
was, I suppose, this is a really, really, really powerful job. You have a huge amount of influence
over the course of Europe. Oh, yeah. So I guess you do want to try and novel it. Yeah. I didn't
know what conclave meant. It means with a key. Oh, yeah. Because you're locked up with a key.
Yeah. That's basically it. Conclave here. Yeah. It's funny you didn't know what it meant because
we've mentioned it on the podcast before. I don't listen to this show. This one you're talking
about, James, this was the 1549 one, wasn't it? Correct, yeah. Which lasted two months,
which was actually pretty zippy for your average medieval conclave because there was a really,
really, really long one, which we may have mentioned before, which took 33 months,
which is Gregory the 10th. Yeah. And that was a bit embarrassing for all concerned,
and he changed the rules. Well, that's why they're locked away now. Because in that one where it
was three, however, three years or whatever it was, they kind of met and then they would go home
and just mess around and then they would go and play golf or whatever. And then they would come
back and they say, have we decided yet? And then they were like, no, no. And so from then on, yeah,
Gregory came up with a rule saying, okay, well, we're going to make a new rule. You have to all
go into the house and you can't leave the house until we have a decision. It's big brother,
basically. And then if you don't have a decision after three days, he gets cut down to one meal
a day. And then if you don't have anything after eight days, you just get bread and water plus wine.
So you've got to have wine. That is like a brother, isn't it? They used to just like give them
very, very meager rations. Did the people in Big Brother over accidentally select a new post though?
No, John Tickle has been the pope for the last eight years. Cardinal Tickle.
But the super long one that went on for over three years or whatever, they eventually after
reducing their rations and everything, eventually they took the roof off with the argument being
that it must be that the Holy Ghost can't get its message to us through this roof. So we better
take the roof off to improve access. But I think the idea was maybe that that might make it even
less comfortable if you've got. Yeah, whether exposed to the elements or that. I think it's
all reasonable. They're just trying to hustle it up. You know why it's just the cardinals that vote?
When you're voting for the pope, it's all the cardinals going to this room and they have to
come up with the idea. But it used to be that everyone in Rome could vote. Really? Yeah, until 1059.
Did they keep voting in like, voting in the boat face or stupid people?
You know why it is a bit like that. Popey book pope. Yes. So this was Benedict the 10th. The previous
pope had made the Roman people swear an oath that they wouldn't elect a new pope until his
favored person had returned from a trip to Germany. So he was dying. He was like, I want this guy to
be pope. Don't vote for anyone else before he gets back. Anyway, this Benedict the 10th,
his family had loads of money and so they bribed everyone to vote for them. So they voted for him.
And in the meantime, this guy's mate, who was Nicholas the second, he's in Germany. He's going,
what the hell's going on? I'm supposed to be pope. And he's with a load of other cardinals
and they go, well, we're going to make you pope anyway. So then we have two popes. Then Nicholas
the second comes back to Rome, declares war on Benedict the 10th. They have a big old fight,
loads of people die, and then Nicholas eventually wins, sends Benedict to jail and said, okay,
from now on, only the cardinals vote because we can't trust the people. Because the cardinals
won't be bribed, but the people might be. That's very surprisingly democratic to say everyone in
Rome gets to stick their aura in about you as to be pope. Yeah, but I mean, really the pope was
effectively, you know, the leader of Rome, like Bishop of Rome. Yeah, even though he was a religious
thing, he was the guy who was in charge. Although no one else is getting voted democratically,
were they? That's true. You know, ahead of their time, the Catholics, I've always said it.
If someone is a likely candidate for the papacy, they're known as papabile,
which literally means popable. You're pretty papabile. Not to be confused with the pokemobile.
It should not be pope. So a lot of this is in the recent, there's a movie recently
out called conclave. Amazing movie. It's so good. It's so good. It was written by Robert Harris,
wasn't it? The book is written by Robert Harris, which and it has a lot of good research in it.
Yeah, yeah, he really did. He like he visited a lot. He spent a lot of time talking to people
in the know. So I did find I was looking at the kind of trivia of, you know, about the movie.
And firstly, I found a Benedictine website, which had a Catholic Film Club podcast,
their episode about conclave was titled conclave clueless evil or both.
So they did not like it as much. Anyway, look, here's this fact I found from the,
this is all from, I think, from the IMDB. It's just about when someone becomes pope,
how they change. It was reported when Francis became pope to the current guy,
that on his elevation to pope, he contacted his Buenos Aires news agent personally to let him
know he wouldn't be continuing his custom of returning the rubber bands from his daily newspaper
at the end of each month. Power really changes people. No spoilers for conclave. But can I
talk about Pope Joan? So Pope Joan, people might know this is a theory that we had a female pope
in the Middle Ages. And I think most people think it's definitely not true.
Right. But there are some people who think it is true and some relatively serious people who
think it is true. There are definitely in museums in Italy, chairs that were used by the pope,
which have holes in the bottom of them. 100%. So in theory, you could check the anal genital
region of the pope. This is a giant pouch wrapping the coat. Damn, I should have sealed it up.
And we did have rap singer. So who knows, would anyone properly check?
Kind of a rap singer. Brilliant. Brilliant. So yeah, the idea being that people say you
use these chairs to check the genitals of the pope to make sure that they're...
And it's when they become pope. It's not for daily use. It's sort of,
you get named pope and then they check, which is pretty stupid because you would think you would
pop them in the chair first. But whether or not that's true, the chairs definitely do exist.
Some people think they might have been to check that the new pope hadn't been castrated.
Right. Some people think that they were originally Roman imperial birthing stools.
Okay. And the idea is that the papacy was trying to show that they were imperial and important.
And so they use this very old Roman birthing stool as a throne.
Could the hell get a different old Roman stool? Couldn't they have gone to the museum
and been like anything except the one that women gave birth through?
Yeah. Or it could have been a b-day.
Yeah. But yeah, we basically don't know why they have these chairs.
But there are, you know, there's the odd, probably not massively serious, but there are the odd
historian that thinks that this might be true. This guy called Michael E. Habicht,
who's an archaeologist at Flinders University. And he found lots of coins from the era.
Of when Pope John was there and found that they had slightly different monograms.
Or what, like a typo John for John? Maybe they had, maybe there were two different
popes at that time. And why were there two different popes? Or maybe because they found
that one of them was a woman and they had to, yeah, we don't know.
They mint coins in between popes. In the Middle Ages, they would mint a coin,
which had the crossed staffs, but no pope because there was no pope.
So if they minted a coin during that period, it had to be a special,
there's no pope when we're making this coin. And they still do it these days, but with a euro.
Well, the between papers these period used to be quite interesting,
because it went a bit lawless apparently, because the pope was essentially the legal
authority in Rome. Once all the popes disappeared for their conclave, Rome went quite mad. There
was one time where, they should bring that back. Yeah, that's great. Whenever the pope dies,
everyone just goes full on perch. Just losing. Or crime is legal.
Well, in fact, they basically did it. This was, I think it was in the 14th or 15th century,
where as soon as the cardinals disappeared to decide the new pope, the local authorities
hired a wizard to come and take control of the city to purge it of plague.
Sorry, I know Dan's not here, but if you've got his notes, I thought we have to have a nod to the
poor guy. And yeah, this guy, Demetrios, used to lead this wild bull through the streets calling
out for the plague to be dispersed. So good. Do you not think he maybe misunderstood what
a papal bull was? Superb. Superb. Very esoteric joke.
How many papal bull puns are going around these days? Can I talk very briefly about this guy?
Scappi. Bartolomeo Scappi. The chef. The chef, the papal chef. He was an amazing guy. He was
one of the first ever international celebrity chefs. He was the cuoco segreto to the popes,
the secret cook, which probably means the personal private cook to the popes. While
Michelangelo was next door doing up the Sistine Chapel. So it was a time of great lavish stuff.
And he had amazing recipes. He made incredibly elaborate things. So, you know, he would make,
he would serve 60 course meals. Too much. It's more of a tasting menu. Is it one where you
still leave hungry? You actually have to have McDonald's before you go. There's a chippy just
outside the Chappy restaurant. But he was an amazing guy, clearly. And he arrived after
Leo the 10th, who was one of the most lavish popes ever. Leo the 10th was made pope on his first
day through a massive fireworks party and feast, then disappeared for the night with his lover,
who he then made the Cardinal of Sienna. Those were the days of being a pope. But Chappy got stuck
in this thing. He got caught up in a wave of puritanical reform. So when Pius the fifth came in,
he was planning this huge, great party, Chappy. And it would have been an amazing banquet. He
wanted to do miniature food castles with live birds in them. Incredible. A jelly pope effigy.
Jelly pope. Fantastic. And then he got told, oh yeah, Pius the fifth is actually planning a big
wave of reform. And he just wants a boiled egg for his supper from now on. I know. So then he wrote
this book, Chappy, the opera dell'arte del cuginare, 1570, contains the first ever picture of a fork,
some of the first ever recipes for stuffed pasta. Like if you were hoping for an opera from the
book, that's what's confusing. It is called the opera. No, but he just did after a 60 cost meal,
the fat lady. She was thin at the start. Okay, it's time for fact number three and that's Andy.
My fact is there is only one grade one listed dog kennel in the UK.
Really? Yeah, yeah. And I visited it the other day. No, I did. I visit it's this place in Kent
called item moat. And it's like it's a beautiful medieval manor house and it's got a moat all
the way around it. And it dates back to the 14th century. National trust, it's bloody good. The
trees for the oldest bits of item moat date back to the 1320s. So it's really old this place.
And it had this kennel built attached to it in the 1890s when they were doing a bit of work on the
house. And because the kennel is attached to a grade one listed property, which we should say is
the highest possible grade of listing in the UK. So you're not allowed to do anything to it. It's
protected. You're not allowed to do anything. If something's grade two listed, you can maybe move
the furniture around, maybe do a bit of interior decorating grade one listed, just leave it alone.
Like it's really historical that stuff. And so this kennel is now grade one listed. It's a nice
kennel. It's really massive. It was made for a St. Bernard dog. It's quite plain. It's wooden, but
it's nice. You know, it's got the classic roof shape, the eaves. Does it look like just a classic
what a child would draw? It's a classic kennel, I would say. Yeah, yeah. It's really good. Yeah.
This is very cool. Just to say on the place, it's absolutely fantastic. It's got a
billions room because I bought the guide because I'm deep into my national trust years now.
Are you a member? Oh yeah. Of course you are. You do it for the parking there, don't you?
I just like this. This was a detail in the guide. It has a billions room with a door
which opens directly onto the moat, which is quite cool. What? You walk up the door, you
find the moat. That's what it sounds like. Well, you go in the house over the bridge,
and then you go into the billions room, and then there's a door at the other end of the
billions room, and you open it, you're in the moat. But why? Because then you fall into the
moat. Yes. Okay, so why does that exist? Well, I'm coming to that. I didn't feel like you were to
be honest. I'm just looking at us like our questions are unreasonable. You might use it
if you wanted to go for a swim in the moat, or if you needed to get into the moat, but there was
an unfortunate secondary use, which is if the loo is too far away, and you want to just,
you know, relieve yourself in the billions room without going all the way to the loo,
you pee into the moat. Pop your bum out. All right. And probably your front.
Okay, you're doing it. It's for a number one. Only man would be allowed to do this, probably.
They're pausing their billions game to have a shit in the moat. I think that's a bit uncouth.
Well, that's how we draw the line, is it? I see. Well, if it flows past the window
where the ladies are having their drinks. I don't know, Andy, I'm not sure.
No, I like it. I'm going one installed in my house. I'm just reading what's in the guide.
They did use to be quite elaborate dog kennels. It's funny how much we valued dogs historically,
at least in Britain. And it's basically because of hunting, so because they were so valuable.
And so from medieval times to the 19th century, big manna houses had a bunch of hounds and they
bloody loved them. I was reading a hunting manual, which had chapter after chapter on how to build
a kennel and what the right kennel should be. And it said, you know, the benches within the
kennel around the edges need to be the perfect height for the dogs to rest on. So they want to
rest above ground level, but not so high that it'll be tiring for them to jump up onto after a long
day's hunting. Okay. So five foot wide, two point five foot high. They need at least one fireplace
to curl up in front of with a chimney or maybe two chimneys. They also need a little dog to do a
shit out of it. Famous painting of the dogs or playing cards. What you don't see is the little
doorway. Yeah, yeah, they need several yards, one paved and one grass so that they can have a bunch
of different, you know, surfaces to play on as much sunlight as possible in the yards, but also
shade options. And yeah, and they need to be cleaned every day. They really love, it wasn't just that
hounds were there as a utility thing. They were really attached to them. And they needed a person
in the kennels living with them at all times. Come on. Who's going to feed the fire otherwise?
Exactly. That's not much of a job, is it? The dog boy? I feel not. I think you probably,
maybe you got to climb the ranks to be top dog. You were Lord of the Manor at the end.
But apparently, yeah, he, the dog boy or some other child must be constantly in the kennel
to be preventing fights between the dogs even at night. Oh gosh, that is a rough gig.
Rough. Because if you're just putting another log on the fire and you know,
putting the dogs to bed, talking about reading their story, that's fine. But if the fight's
going to break out at night. I feel like it would. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how you break up a fight
between a bunch of dogs in the kennel. I believe you're a boy. I think you're up the bum, don't you?
I think that is. Is that what you do? Well, that is a definite, if a dog's clamped its
jaws around your leg, that is the thing to do. Finger up the bum. Or ask a nearby friend to
do the same. So maybe you have two dog boys in there. Yeah. Do you know what the most expensive
kennel of all time was? Oh no. Is it gasable? No. Is it has a hole in the roof? That's a clue.
Oh, do we know this? Can we work out why it has a hole in the roof? It might be a chimney.
That hole is what makes it very expensive. Oh. And this is a kennel. Yes. Small hole. It was
sold for $44,100 in 2019. Sorry, in 2020. Oh, it's a historic kennel. It's the kennel that,
no, hang on. Let me get to the end of the wrong answer. The kennel that Scott of the Antarctic
took with him for the sled dogs. I see. And it's got a small hole in the roof because
you'd burn a fire in there to keep the dog's wall. Very good. No. Yep. Good. Thank you.
What might make a hole in a roof? A bird falling. Might not make a hole. It probably
bounce off his tin roof. Okay. Meteorite. You are meteorite. That is correct. Wow. This was
the only known dog kennel to have been hit by a meteorite. And it was sold by Christie's in 2020.
Sorry. Who the hell paid $44,000 for that? That's insane. Someone insane. Is it Dan Schreiber? Did
it say who'd bought it? It was Dan Schreiber. What happened to the dog? Oh, the dog was fine.
Yeah. He doesn't have a house anymore because they sold it. Right. But he wasn't hurt by the
meteorite. So that's good. Well, that's good. People go nuts for meteorites though. Did it come
with the meteorite? I believe not. Okay. That is some salesmanship that has happened there.
One careful owner. There were a series of luxury dog kennels recently. One of them,
when it was sold, came with the warning that the dog was not included, which I quite like.
This was, did you read back in 2018, a bunch of architects, world famous architects were
invited to design these dog kennels. So like Zahar Hadid's company did one and all the world
famous. You've buried the lead here. Lead, dog joint, good. Berry, dog's berry, fine. There's
a dog event annually called Good Wolf, like Good Wood. And the event they have is called
Barchitecture. And it's, they get famous architects to design kennels for dogs.
Oh, it's been happening every year now. Okay. And it's to raise money for Blue Cross.
Yes. I think it is in fact. They do look cool. I mean, some of them look amazing. You know,
there's a, there's one called Bonehenge, which is very good. Nice. Is it all puns?
Most, I mean, it doesn't hurt. I think there's a noise canceling kennel for use on fireworks
night. Oh, that's a good idea. Very good idea. That's actually a little bit like Arizona in 2018.
There was a dog kennels. It was the Maricopa County Animal Care Company. And they had this
program called Calming Companions, where they invited people to come and sit in their kennels
with the dogs on the 4th of July. So that they could calm them down as the fireworks went off.
200 people rocked up. How do you calm a dog down when fireworks come off? Massage has evolved.
Honey, they read, they've read them stories as you suggested earlier. So you, there you go.
Oh, that's nice. Played the music, entertained the dogs, and then we're all ripped to shreds.
Do you know Princess Alexandra of Denmark, who was married to Edward the 7th?
Yes. Yeah, of course. She was, she loved dogs. Love dogs. And she kept loads and loads of them
at Sandringham. And there was a journalist called Sarah Tully, who was shown them and wrote about
them. And they just seem amazing. Each kennel had a bedroom with an iron bedstead. Leading from
the bedroom is a sitting room supplied with straw and a constant supply of fresh water.
If there's a sitting room, is there also a staying room, a rollovering room, a shake hands room?
There is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which I believe is in America.
It's in New York. Yeah, they've got Mary Antoinette's dog kennel, which is very nice. It's more of a
little... Why didn't she sleep in a bed? She was very humble. Yeah, famously. So, and it's more
of a carrying, you know, a plush carrying case kind of, because it's for a little dog, because I
imagine she had a small dog. And it's, it was made by a master furniture maker. So it's got
neoclassical acanthus leaves carved around the edges and it's, obviously it's gilded. The dog,
amazingly, was imprisoned alongside Mary Antoinette. Supposedly. Oh, no, he didn't get his head chops
after that. I don't think they had a smaller guillotine. I don't think so. There's something
that's quite cute about that, though. No. I mean, it sounds cute, but then I think at the end it
becomes less and less cute. You're right. And there's a moment where it switches, isn't there?
There is a kennel in West Sussex near East Grinstead, which is a very interesting and weird
place, which was built by Edwin Lutjens, who's one of the most famous architects that England is
ever pretty. It was a huge deal. And it was built as a dog kennel, but it is currently, right now,
as we recall this, it's on sale as a four-bedroom house. And it's one of these big kennels for a
pack of dogs that Anna was talking about. And I've looked at the photos and it is nice.
I think it's more than a million quid. It's on sale for like, it's really...
And dogs could afford that back in the day. Yeah. House prices were just a completely
different ball game back in the day. A ball game. There's another one.
That's amazing. It's stunning. If you Google it, it's like, it's a beautiful home now. And it's
four bedrooms. It's all on one floor, obviously, because it was built for the kennels. We could
four bedrooms. We could do it. I mean, I'd love to live in that. No, that's not where we're retiring,
guys. We'll get a dog boy to come and look after us. Put his finger up on his thumb every time we
get angry. Okay, it is time for fact number four. And that is Dan Schreiber's facts. Dan, what's your
fact today? My fact this week is that reenactment actors on America's Most Wanted run a higher
risk of being arrested after the show goes out than normal actors. Tell us more.
No, he can't tell us more. He can't because he's indisposed. But James, you can tell us more.
I can because he gave us a link and it is from the San Diego reader and it was a letter. Someone
said, "Hey, Matt." They've written to someone called Matthew Alice, who was a journalist here and said,
"Are there any examples when actors in these crime-solving reality shows were spotted in the
street and turned in thinking they were the actual perps?" And this was a letter from Langston in
Spring Valley and this journalist called Matt replied and said, "Yeah, that is definitely the case."
And there was one woman who played an evil nanny housekeeper who was forging employers checks and
burned down their houses and the actor who played them was recognized by two teenagers and she was
hustled to the prison and they had to be straightened out afterwards using her social security
number to prove that she was an actor. Because it's a good lie if you are an evil nanny who's
been burning down people's houses and faking checks if you're arrested in the street. You say,
"No, no, no, I'm one of the actors in the show." They use that image of me because for right reasons
they couldn't use the image of the real criminal. It's probably worth everyone joining Equity just
in case. I don't know if it's the most foolproof plan. But they do choose people who look similar,
don't they? They do, for sure. I haven't seen America's Most Wanted ever. I saw Crime Watch
a bit when it was on. Yeah, which is our British equivalent, by the way, but it's quite a different
tone. America's Most Wanted, I watched a little bit of it and it's that American tone that's quite
over the top and sensationalised and quite hard to watch. I should just explain very quickly that
these shows, so Crime Watch and America's Most Wanted, basically there's a crime that's happened
in the past and they do a recreation of that crime and then they have a phone number that you can
call in case you have any details of what might have happened and then they'll give you a reward
if they managed to catch the person who did it. Yeah. Yeah. And it has happened in the UK,
like in Crime Watch there was a guy called Steve Watson who was in the reconstruction of a murder
of a woman and it was shown on BBC One. This woman's called Julie Pacey and sure enough,
people recognised him in the reconstruction and the police came and they brought him in and they
did his fingerprints and DNA and stuff like that. Wait, the actor? The actor, yeah. So this is
incorrect? Yeah, it's the same as what happened in America. But luckily, in this case, they had the
DNA of the perpetrator of the murder, so they could tell that it wasn't him. I'm amazed that it
actually works, America's Most Wanted. I couldn't believe it, yeah. Because they've brought in a
lot of people over the years, like they were on for years and years and years and years and they
would have a huge phone bank of people taking tips from members of the public after the show.
There was one, I don't know if you guys found Mark Goodman in 1988. Did you find this guy? No,
someone else found him. Superb. So he had committed a burglary, right? And he was in prison for it.
Okay. But he was wanted in a different bit of the country because he had been convicted for an
armed robbery and then he'd escaped. So he was on the lamb for that crime, but he was in prison
already for another one. He and his fellow lags were watching America's Most Wanted one night
and his face came up on the screen. Wow. And he quickly tried to change the channel.
But it was too late. It's too suspicious. Play it cool. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Do you think, like,
if you're a criminal, like, I don't really like watching panel shows on TV because it's my job
and it's like, I know they're really good, but I just feel like, oh, that's my job. I don't want to
do it when I'm off as well. I couldn't agree more. I would have thought if I was banged up,
I wouldn't want to watch Crime Watch. No. Well, they did. And amazingly, what do you think the
other prisoners did? They said, oh, well, we're all in it together. So let's definitely not dub
you into the authorities. They stopped him into the authorities. I cannot believe the correct
response is to give him a false mustache and say, oh, yeah, funny about your brother, you know.
That's prison morality for you, isn't it? I'm just really shocked. It's a doggy dog world.
Yeah. America's Most Wanted Alone has helped to catch over 1,200 fugitives and bring home
loads of loads of missing children. Crime Watch has helped police with over 5,000 cases. So it is
quite impressive. I think my favorite from America's Most Wanted Catches was this
story set in the Green Parrot Cafe in Salt Lake City, Utah, which is incredible. Did you guys
read about this? Hello. So basically, there was a robbery of that cafe in 1992, and it was a bit
botched and someone ended up dead, like one of the staff, I think, in the cafe or one of the
people in the cafe. And so a few months later, America's Most Wanted aired that and said,
have you seen this killer? And all the staff at the cafe were like, oh, we're going to be on
America's Most Wanted member because there was that murder in here a couple of months ago. Let's
watch. So all the staff and all the patrons in there crowded around to watch and they watched the
story and they watched, you know, have you seen this guy? And then there was another story after
it that said, okay, on to the next one case of a child molester. Have you seen this man?
And they kept the TV running and all the patrons and all the staff watching it went,
God, he looks a lot like, he looks so much like the guy who works in our kitchen,
doesn't he? And then he said, gradually the manager was like, they were like,
hang on, it is Tommy from the kitchen. And they, it was Kenneth, Kenneth from the kitchen.
And so they called up crime watch. Gave him a false mustache. He just watches that plate so well.
Sent him on his way. Wow. Isn't that a coincidence? That's insane. Yeah. It's a dangerous cafe to
be going to. Yeah. All these shows are based off a German format called Akten Zeichen XY.
That means file reference XY unsolved. Ungerlust. Yeah. And this year, in fact, that TV show
managed to catch a member of the Baader-Meinhof gang. And if you haven't heard of the Baader-Meinhof
gang, you soon will, because that's what they're most famous for. As soon as you hear of them once,
you always hear about them again sometime in the next couple of weeks.
The Baader-Meinhof effect. Is that what it's called? Yeah. They were basically a group of,
they were like a Marxist terror group who were attacking people and robbing people because of
the guilt of World War II or something like that. 70s? 70s and early 80s, yeah.
And sorry, is this show still going out in Germany? Yeah, yeah. And they just caught them.
They caught them this year. They said, oh, like, this is a thing that happened and they found this
woman who was called Daniella Kletter, who was apprehended thanks to that. And she'd done violent
acts during the 70s. And was it a bit of a 'forgiven-forget' kind of thing 50 years ago?
Oh, you're so 'forgiven-forget'. I think generally speaking, they're not thought very highly of,
the Baader-Meinhof group. No. Anna, there's a reason your Nazi hunting career stumbled on the blocks
which is your milk of human kindness is so flowing. I just think it was so nice when you
actually meet them. Do you know who voiced all of America's Most Wanted? Who's that?
It's a man who, I think we've very, very briefly mentioned, but about eight years ago,
he's a man nicknamed Old Thunderthroat, Don Lafontaine. He died about 10 years ago, 10,
15 years ago. And he is the man who's behind every Hollywood trailer you've ever seen.
Is it that guy? In a world. And he did the voices on America's Most Wanted.
He didn't do the voices. He did the voiceover. Sorry.
Can you hear this one sound like Mickey Mouse? Oh, sure, I can! What?
But I just got distracted reading about him. He would do up to 35 jobs a day around Hollywood
voiceover. He was so in demand at the height of his career, just even in a world, you know, of
crime. Just amazing voice. But Screen Actors Guild said he was the
busiest ever member of their guild. Is that so? That's really good, because he doesn't have to go
somewhere for three months on location. And, you know, like, a job's a job and it takes him a
short time. He also invented the phrases "one man army", "one man, one destiny", and "from the bedroom
to the boardroom", and "nowhere to run, nowhere to hide". Like, he invented all those phrases.
So, "nowhere to run, nowhere to hide" is something I say quite a lot. I very seldom...
They might not be things he regularly says, but you do recognize them, though.
Like, "from the bedroom to the boardroom, I don't recognize".
What does that mean? Is that you're shagging someone and then you hire them?
Yeah. Or is it... I mean, you wake up in a bedroom, don't you? Mostly.
I don't know. What? It's just your morning routine.
Yeah, I get up in the bedroom. I typically wake in the bedroom when I go to the boardroom.
I very seldom wake up in the boardroom and go to the bedroom.
It just doesn't feel like we need a saying for that.
You're right. I like it, though. I do like it.
Because he often improvised these bits and wrote them himself.
Also, he really made those up. It wasn't like they were given to him and he said them.
Sometimes they would be, but sometimes he made them up himself.
Because he can't make up the plot of Terminator and just bust it once they've made the film.
Like, they've made the film. They probably have an idea of what they wanted to say.
That's really cool that he invented those phrases.
Do you know who does the theme tune for Crime Watch in the UK?
No. This is a guy called John Cameron. He wrote it.
And he also arranged the album Mellow Yellow by Friends of the Podcast.
Saffron band, Donovan. He's suddenly popping up a lot, isn't he?
He's a bloody bar of mine, hoping me.
The coolest thing I read about Crime Watch was they did a looking back over 40 years of it
thing and interviewed a bunch of the presenters and asked them about their favorite moments.
And one of them, he was talking about how amazing the detectives are
and how they spot these tiny things. And it's so Sherlock.
He said that the perpetrator's alibi was cracked because a detective noticed in a photo of the
crime scene there was a drip coming from the kitchen tap and the suspects had admitted that
he'd used the tap before leaving the house. But the police calculated how long it would have taken
the kitchen sink to fill up with that dripping tap, dripping at that rate and realized it wouldn't
have filled to the extent that it had if he'd been there at the time he'd said so he must have
done the murder. Isn't that cool? That's incredible. That's Sherlock Holmes.
Yeah, it doesn't feel like it would stand up in car.
I've got a tap with trips and then every now and then you get like a little splurge.
I know what you mean. It could have just stopped dripping for a while and then suddenly, yeah.
And it was just based on that. So it could be a wrong thing.
I was looking at the history of shows that tap in that basically allow the public to take part
in crime solving. And the first example I could find was a TV show broadcast on the BBC in 1938
called 'Telecrime' and it was actually a spin-off of a... 1938.
Yeah. Well, the public couldn't... That's so early. That's like they had to stop for the war.
They did not stop for the war. It was sort of that brief thing where there was TV in the UK,
but no one had a set. It was exactly then, yeah. Yeah. The war was it. And then they did stop for
the war. Was it an invasion of Belgium? I mean, that is a big crime. That is a big crime. Have
you seen this army? They have five million men. Oh, no. I think it's you, Fira. Quick, put up this
moustache. Oh, no! It was based on a magazine series called 'Photo Crime' this way. You'd be
shown all these pictures of crime scenes and then they'd write clues next to them and then you could
work out who did it. And the way the show worked was it was fictional, by the way, so it was like
a who done it. Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But it really invited you to work out who did it. So the
idea of the show was they showed you enough evidence in the 15-minute show to work out who the killer
was. And then just as the killer was about to be revealed, the screen suddenly phased a black
and a big question mark came up. Really? And a voiceover came up saying, "Do you know who did it?"
And then it paused on the screen for a couple of minutes while you could sit there at home on
your sofa, noting down on the clues and working out. So there was a show only a couple of years ago
called Armchair Detectives with Susan Kalman in it, which did a similar thing. It was absolutely
brilliant. And they never recommissioned it, I think, because it was extremely expensive to make,
because effectively you were making an entire murder mystery play each week. You're making us an
inspector morse. Yeah, and you needed loads of cast, and the cast couldn't be the same every week,
because otherwise it would just not make any sense. And yeah, but it was a brilliant show.
Oh, there you go, nicked it from a 1938 format, so cool. Yeah.
I was looking at True Crime in general, because these shows, they have a big effect on people,
and people's perceptions of crime, you know, how much crime you think there is. If you watch
America's Most Wanted, you'll probably think there are more terrible crimes happening than
there are, obviously. And, you know, podcasting, I find this amazing, because it's been studied,
like, the effect of True Crime podcasting on people. So 35% of True Crime fans say they have
investigated people around them. No. Yeah, because you start thinking, I could do this work.
Are they investigating their friends just to practice, or do they suddenly think
they're friends or murderers, do we think? Does it make you very suspicious, or does it just
make you think, I'm going to sharpen my wits? Probably, yeah, probably just you see people
acting like that on the show as an investigating, and probably it just helps you to have a go
yourself. It doesn't make me want to listen to True Crime, it's going to make me think all my
mates are murderers. But you're a woman, Anna, so you should like True Crime, as in many more women
like. Okay, then I will. Enjoy True Crime than men, and women only like one thing, that's crime.
I went to watch my favorite murderer, Hammersmith, and the audience percentage of women was through
the roof. Really? Yeah, it was like being at a Guilty Feminist podcast. Right. There's many,
many, many more women than that. So we are all quite sick and twisted. There are loads of theories
as to why, like one theory is these stories contain kind of information about how to avoid crime. If,
as a woman, you know, women, I think. Yeah, right, that's why they're listening. Come on,
it's just a lascivious desire to hear some gruesome murders. I don't know. Or women empathize more with
women victims of crime. That might be a thing. Yeah, like it's, yeah, I think you can see a
lot of reasons. I must admit, when I, quite a few years ago now, I went back and read all of the
Sherlock Holmes short stories. And I must admit, I'd be sat on the tube sort of looking at people's
shoes and seeing if I could work out where they've been that day and stuff. That's kind of the same
thing. Yeah, completely. I did the same thing. Yeah. Oh, I see you've recently returned from Toulouse.
Because they've got a big suitcase with TLS on it. I bought this t-shirt in Toulouse
two days ago in March 2025.
Okay, that is it. That's all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening. If you want to get
in touch with anyone here today, they are all on social media. James, what are you on?
Well, I'm on all sorts. But let's say this week that I'm on Instagram at gnosis thing as James
Harkin. Okay, Andy. I'm on police guy at Andrew Hunter M. Dan's on the toilet.
You can catch him there. And if you want to get on top of the podcast as a whole, you can email
podcast@qi.com or go to @no such thing on Twitter or no such thing as a fish on Instagram.
Or you can go to our website, no such thing as a fish.com, where you'll find all of our previous
episodes that you can binge on, as well as links to various things like merchandise,
a couple of our upcoming live shows that we are doing in Sheffield and in Belgium,
and anything else that he normally says. Clubfish. We have a secret members club called Clubfish,
and it's brilliant. And you should join for just a couple of quit a month. You get all sorts of
bonus info and free episodes. It's the bee's balls. There you go. It's the pouch rats,
anal genital region. There you go. If you want to get on that, then do that. Clubfish. And if not,
you can listen to this episode again, not this episode, another one, another one of these episodes.
But with different facts next week, we will see you then. Goodbye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]